# Description of the Movie Book Recommendation Application Architecture

## Overview

Movie Book Recommendation application runs in a virtual machine in cPouta. It consists of two parts: front end and backend. Two relevant users for the application have been created in cPouta: *ubuntu* and *mvbkrunner*.

## Front End

Front end application is a React application, running on a Docker container under user ubuntu, using this backend's API's to fetch data. 

Check the [repository for the frontend](https://github.com/movie-book-recommender/movie-book-recommender-project) for specific details.

## Backend

Backend of the Movie Book Recommender application can be seen to consist of the following parts: 
* **Postgres database** that contains practically all the data used by the application
* **Flask application** that creates a connection to the database and provides APIs to access the data in the database
* **nginx and Gunicorn** servers that manage the traffic towards the backend Flask application

### Postgres Database

* **Database.** Application's Postgres database is called **mvbkdb** and it is located in cPouta under user *ubuntu*.
* **Users.**   Super user for the database is *postgres* by default. Flask application connects to the database as user *moviebook* which has limited access rights. Each developer has their own user profile to access the database.
* **Scheme and tables.** All tables in the database are created under *public* scheme. The database contains approximately 29 tables, most of which are based on the data provided by the research project. 
* **Source of the data.** 
    * This website uses data from the following three sources: 
        * [MovieLens](https://movielens.org/)
        * [Tag Genome for movies](https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/tag-genome-2021/) and 
        * [Tag Genome for books](https://grouplens.org/datasets/book-genome/).
    * The datasets include data collected from [IMDb](https://www.imdb.com/) and [Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/) and are related to the following publications:
        * Kotkov, D., Medlar, A., Maslov, A., Satyal, U. R., Neovius, M., & Glowacka, D. (2022, March). The Tag Genome Dataset for Books. In ACM SIGIR Conference on Human Information Interaction and Retrieval (pp. 353-357).
        * Kotkov, D., Maslov, A., and Neovius, M. (2021). Revisiting the tag relevance prediction problem. In Proceedings of the 44th International ACM SIGIR conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval. https://doi.org/10.1145/3404835.3463019
        * Vig, J., Sen, S., and Riedl, J. (2012). The tag genome: Encoding community knowledge to support novel interaction. ACM Trans. Interact. Intell. Syst., 2(3):13:1–13:44. https://doi.org/10.1145/2362394.2362395
* **Tables for books** are as follows:
    * Tables *bk_metadata*, *bk_ratings*, *bk_reviews*, *bk_survey_answers*, *bk_tag_count* and *bk_tags* are based on data provided by Tag Genome for books in similarly named files.
    * Contents for table *bk_tagdl* is generated based on tagdl.csv file for books developed in Kotkov et al., 2021.
    * Contents for tables *bk_similar_books*, *bk_similar_movies* and *bk_tagdl_common* are calculated based on algorithms [book_to_books.py](../documentation/book_to_books.py), [book_to_movies.py](../documentation/book_to_movies.py) and [books_tagdl_common.py](../documentation/books_tagdl_common.py) respectively.
    * Table *bk_lengths* was generated based on a partial test of the [book_to_books.py](../documentation/book_to_books.py) algorithm, and is not used in the application.
* **Tables for movies** are as follows:
    * Tables *mv_metadata_all*, *mv_metadata_updated_all*, *mv_ratings_all*, *mv_reviews*, *mv_survey_answers*, *mv_tag_count*, *mv_tags* are based on data provided by Tag Genome for movies in similarly named files. 
    * Table *movie_tmdb_data_full_all* is based on data provided by Movielens. 
    * Contents for table *mv_tagdl* is generated based on tagdl.csv file for movies developed in Kotkov et al., 2021.
    * Tables *mv_metadata*, *mv_metadata_updated*, *mv_ratings* and *movie_tmdb_data_full* contain subsets of data in tables *mv_metadata_all*, *mv_metadata_updated_all*, *mv_ratings_all* and *movie_tmdb_data_full_all*. Subsets has been generated by [selecting to the tables](../documentation/limit_tables.sql) only those movies that have tags available in *mv_tagdl*. 
    * Contents for tables *mv_similar_books*, *mv_similar_movies*, and *mv_tagdl_common* are calculated based on algorithms [mv_to_mvs.py](../documentation/mv_to_mvs.py), [movies_to_books.py](../documentation/movie_to_books.py) and [movies_tagdl_common.py](../documentation/movies_tagdl_common.py) respectively.
    * Table *mv_lengths* was generated based on a partial test of the [mv_to_mvs.py](../documentation/book_to_books.py) algorithm, and is not used in the application.

### Additional Data Files Used in the Application

* Please note that in addition to the data in Postgres Database, the application uses two **csv files** [movies_tagdl_common_limited.csv](../datasets/movies_tagdl_common_limited.csv) and [books_tagdl_common_limited.csv](../datasets/books_tagdl_common_limited.csv), which contain subsets of the Postgres tables *mv_tagdl* and *bk_tagdl*, respectively.
* These files are not inserted in the Postgres database, as their contents are not used from the database. In production, they are stored in the virtual machine under user *mvbkrunner*.
* These files have been generated based on script [mvs_bks_tagdl_common_limited.py](../documentation/mvs_bks_tagdl_common_limited.py).

### Backend Flask App

* Backend application is a Flask application and it runs in cPouta under user *mvbkrunner*. 
* [app.py](../app.py) starts and runs the application.
* [routes_movies.py](../main/routes_movies.py) implements API routes for movies data in the flask app.
* [routes_books.py](../main/routes_books.py) implements API routes for books data in the flask app.
* Classes *TableMvTags*, *TableMovieTmdbDataFull*, *TableMvMetadataUpdated*, *TableMvSimilarMovies*, *TableMvSimilarBooks* and *TableMvTagDl* in [movies.py](../main/movies.py) outline the contents of all the tables with data regarding movies in the application's database that are used in the application.
* Classes *TableBkMetadata*, *TableBkRatings*, *TableBkSimilarBooks* and  *TableBkSimilarMovies* in [books.py](../main/books.py) outline the contents of all the tables with data regarding books in the application's database that are used in the application.
* Class *Recommenations* in [recommendations.py](../main/recommendations.py) implements methods to get the data and to calculate recommendations based on user's preferences.
* Class *Helper* in [helper.py](../main/helper.py) implements general methods used across all classes.
* [extentions.py](../main/extentions.py) creates database connection with SQLAlchemy.

### nginx and Gunicorn

* Though flask application is useful in development, it cannot handle multiple requests at the same time, and it should not be run as such in production. 
* As a result, a WSGI (Web Server Gateway Interface) Gunicorn and production level HTTP server nginx have been installed and configured.

## Ideas for Future Development

### Front End

Check the [repository for the frontend](https://github.com/movie-book-recommender/movie-book-recommender-project)

### Backend

* Test which limitations of the tags data based on different levels of scores or tags provide most relevant recommendations for the user efficiently.
* Optimize the efficiency of the recommendation algorithm further, identifying clusters of tags that relate to each other to produce more efficiently recommendations for the users. 
* Focus movie and book recommendations for movies and books only on items that the user has not yet rated or included in the wishlist.